doc(release) Release notes Modules 25.10.0 (#4747)
centreon/centreon-documentation: i18n/fr/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/version-25.10/releases/centreon-commercial-extensions.mdx

Pour faire des demandes d'évolutions ou reporter des bugs sur les extensions commerciales, veuillez contacter le support.

> Retrouvez plus de détails sur la version 25.10 dans notre [post de blog](https://www.centreon.com/fr/centreon-annonce-la-sortie-de-sa-derniere-version-logicielle-centreon-24-10/).

<ExpandCollapseAll />

## Centreon MAP

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [Configuration] Added private Map server address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Core] Migrate to PNPM 10 and upgrade dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Core] Migrated to PNPM 10 and upgraded dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).
```

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

> - [Dashboards] When creating a new widget, the list of existing types of widgets is now categorized and ordered alphabetically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Dashboards] When displaying an existing public Playlist containing a Map widget with no Map selected, a message is now displayed indicating that one must first be selected for it to be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Database] Extended bend point limitations for links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Editor] Added "display icons" option for Map containers and resources. If checked, custom and state icons are displayed on the shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: state or status? @rbignotticentreon

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Editor] Exit confirmation modals are no longer displayed when no modification has been made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Editor] Fixed issue that prevented metric parameters from being displayed when editing a metric link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Editor] Fixed an issue preventing groups of items to be duplicated.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Editor] Fixed an issue preventing groups of items to be duplicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Editor] It is now possible to use sub-groups of items in a Map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Gauge widget] Added an option to display the name of the parent resource.

Reviewer: why in modules?

> - [Gauge widget] Added an option to display the name of the parent resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Geoviews] Allowed user to define privileges for Geoviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Geoviews] Privileges can now be defined on geographic views.
```

> - [Geoviews] Allowed user to define privileges for Geoviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Library] Added the possibility to select a custom icon representing a Geoview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Library] Added the possibility to select a custom icon representing a geographic view.
```

> - [Library] Added the possibility to select a custom icon representing a Geoview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [MAP API] It is now possible to use MAP API with API Token when authentication is delegated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MAP API] It is now possible to use the MAP API with an API token when authentication is delegated.
```

> - [MAP] Removed MAP Legacy elements.

Reviewer 2: add "in MAP configuration screen"

> - [MAP] Removed MAP Legacy elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MAP] Removed MAP Legacy elements in the MAP configuration screen.
```

> - [Playlists] The MAP widget is now operational when displayed in the public Playlists of Dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Server] Adapt protobuf to handle the new event "AdaptiveHostStatus" from Broker.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Server] Adapt protobuf to handle the new event "AdaptiveHostStatus" from Broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Server] Adapt protobuf to handle the new event "AdaptiveServiceStatus" from Broker.

Reviewer: is this useful?

> - [Server] Adapt protobuf to handle the new event "AdaptiveServiceStatus" from Broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [Server] BBDOv2 messages are no longer supported.

> - [Server] Fixed a synchronization issue that could cause resources to disappear from a map.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Server] Fixed a synchronization issue that could cause resources to disappear from a map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Server] Modified SQL user rights to grant only necessary ones.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Server] Modified SQL user rights to grant only necessary ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Server] Optimized the propagation of a resource status change.

Reviewer 2: already 24.10

> - [Server] Optimized the propagation of a resource status change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [URL widget] Added a pointer cursor when hovering the widget, to clearly identify that the link is clickable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [URL widget] A pointer cursor is now displayed when hovering over a widget, to clearly identify that the link is clickable.
```

> - [URL widget] Added a pointer cursor when hovering the widget, to clearly identify that the link is clickable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [URL widget] Fixed an issue that prevented border from being removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [URL widget] Fixed an issue that prevented borders from being removed when requested.
```

> - [URL widget] Fixed an issue that prevented border from being removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [URL widget] Fixed an issue that made the URL accessible only when clicking two times, instead of one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [URL widget] Fixed an issue that made the URL accessible only when clicking twice instead of once.
```

> - [URL widget] Fixed an issue that made the URL accessible only when clicking two times, instead of one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [URL widget] Labels are now centered vertically.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [URL widget] Links are now always opened in a dedicated tab.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [URL widget] Links are now always opened in a dedicated tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Viewer] Fixed issue that prevented pie chart widget from being displayed in percentage per status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Viewer] You can now display the status as the background color for a resource in weather or icon style.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Viewer] You can now display the status as the background color for a resource in weather or icon style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - MAP Legacy is no longer supported.

Reviewer: already in 24.10

> - MAP Legacy is no longer supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Maps and Geoviews lists are now sorted alphabetically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lists of maps and geographic views are now sorted alphabetically.
```

> - Maps and Geoviews lists are now sorted alphabetically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - [Config] The configure.sh script does not start the mysql service anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Config] The **configure.sh** script does not start the **mysql** service anymore, as it was not necessary.
```

- [Config] The Map address is now used by default when no internal Map address has been defined.

> - [Editor] Fixed issues when copy/pasting elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Editor] Fixed issues occurring when copying and pasting elements.
```

> - [Geoviews] Fixed several issues in the edition modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Geoviews] Fixed several issues in the edition window.
```

> - [MAP Editor] Fixed an issue causing parent name to be wrong in tooltip after saving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MAP Editor] Fixed an issue causing a resource's parent name to be wrong in the tooltip after saving.
```

> - [MAP Viewer] Fixed an issue causing inherited status not to be refreshed when removing a service from a container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MAP Viewer] Fixed an issue causing an inherited status not to be refreshed when removing a service from a container.
```

> - [MAP Viewer] Fixed an issue causing inherited status to ignore status computation parameters (downtime, acknowledge) for services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MAP Viewer] Fixed an issue causing an inherited status to ignore status computation parameters (downtime, acknowledgement) for services.
```

- [MAP Viewer] Fixed an issue causing text formatting not to be applied in some cases.
- [Viewer] Fixed an issue where BAs linked to a remote server were not displayed.

> - [Viewer] Fixed the redirection link to Resource Status page when clicking on a meta service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Viewer] When clicking on a metaservice, the redirection link to the Resource Status page now works correctly.
```

- [Viewer] Graphs are no longer being displayed for services without any metric.

> - Restored translations from UI tooltips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Server] Fixed ownership of configuration files.
- [Vulnerability] Upgraded spring security web dependency to version 6.2.8.
- [Vulnerability] Upgraded spring security web dependency to version 6.2.8.
- [Vulnerability] Upgraded spring security web dependency to version 6.2.8.

> - [Vulnerability] Upgraded spring security web dependency to version 6.2.8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Vulnerability] Upgraded Tomcat to version 10.1.43.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [Vulnerability] Upgraded Tomcat to version 10.1.44.
- [Security] Added authentication for actuator endpoints.

</details>

## Centreon BAM

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [Core] Migrate to PNPM 10 and upgrade dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Core] Migrated to PNPM 10 and upgraded dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).
```

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

> - [Dashboards] BA Diagram widget - Added the parent host name on service KPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [Dashboards] When creating a new widget, the list of existing types of widgets is now categorized and ordered alphabetically.

> - [Dashboards][BA Diagram widget] Improved readability by increasing the number of characters displayed per label.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Dashboards][BA Diagram widget] Improved readability by increasing the number of characters displayed per label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Dashboards] Added new widget "Business Activity Status Timeline" that displays the distribution of current statuses on a BA, as a chronological timeline for a given time period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Monitoring] A new, modern version of the BA monitoring page is now available.

Reviewer 2: already in 24.10

> - [Monitoring] A new, modern version of the BA monitoring page is now available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - Restored translations from UI tooltips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [BA diagram] Disabled indicators are now displayed in a dedicated node of the tree.

</details>

## Centreon MBI

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

> - [Core] Migrate to PNPM 10 and upgrade dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14) on BAM. MBI and ITEE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Core] Migrated to PNPM 10 and upgraded dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).
```

> - [Dashboards] Fixed auto-adjustment of curves in graphics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Fixed the auto-adjustment of curves in graphics.
```

> - [Dashboards] The MBI reporting widget "Business Activity availability" is now available within Dashboards. It displays availability and alerts of a Business Activity for a given period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] New MBI reporting widget: **Business Activity availability**. It displays availability and alerts for a Business Activity for a given period.
```

> - [Dashboards] The MBI reporting widget"Business Activity history"" is now available within Dashboards. It displays the availability history of a Business Activity or a Business View for a given period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] New MBI reporting widget: **Business Activity history**. It displays the availability history for a Business Activity or a Business View for a given period.
```

> - [Dashboards] The MBI reporting widget "Hostgroup Availability History" is now available within Dashboards. It displays the availability history of hosts, host categories or host groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] New MBI reporting widget: **Hostgroup Availability History**. It displays the availability history of hosts, host categories or host groups.
```

> - [Dashboards] The MBI reporting widget "Metric Capacity Planning" is now available within Dashboards. It allows to display the future evolution of a metric in relation to its history using linear regression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] New MBI reporting widget: "Metric Capacity Planning". Displays the future evolution of a metric in relation to its history using linear regression.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - [ETL] Fixed issue when metric names exceed 255 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ETL] Fixed an issue occurring when metric names exceeded 255 characters.
```

> - [MBI] Fixed an issue causing ACLs not to be applied on Report designs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MBI] Fixed an issue causing ACLs not to be applied to report designs.
```

> - [MBI]Fixed duplicated report templates when upload fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MBI] Fixed duplicated report templates that appeared when upload failed.
```

> - [MBI] Fixed upload of report templates.

Reviewer: ?

> - Restored translations from UI tooltips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Engine] Fixed ownership of configuration files.
- [MBI] Fixed an issue causing potential privilege escalation.
- [Vulnerability] Upgraded JDOM version.
- [Vulnerability] Upgraded versions of Apache Commons and TemporaryFolder dependencies.

</details>

## Centreon Auto Discovery

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

> - [core] Migrate to PNPM 10 and upgrade dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [core] Migrated to PNPM 10 and upgraded dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - [Configuration] Fixed SQL Error in service discovery with MySQL platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed SQL error in service discovery occurring when using MySQL.
```

> - Fixed error code and message that were displayed in case of invalid license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed the error code and message that were displayed in case of an invalid license.
```

> - Restored translations from UI tooltips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security</summary>

- [Vulnerability] Disabled shell interpretation for discovery commands by default. Can be enabled again with a Gorgone configuration file parameter.

</details>

## Centreon License Manager

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - Restored translations from UI tooltips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

## Centreon Anomaly Detection

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

> - [Core] Migrate to PNPM 10 and upgrade dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Core] Migrated to PNPM 10 and upgraded dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- [Translation] Added missing French translations.

> - [Translation] Translated configuration pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

## Centreon IT Edition Extensions

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, that shall result in an optimized loading of CSS elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS] The Tailwind framework is now used, optimizing the loading of CSS elements.
```

> - [Core] Migrate to PNPM 10 and upgrade dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Core] Migrated to PNPM 10 and upgraded dependencies (React 19 and Cypress 14).
```

> - [Playlists] The MAP widget is now operational when displayed in the public Playlists of Dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Playlists] The MAP widget is now handled correctly in the public playlists of Dashboards.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - [Playlists] Fixed an issue with the refresh of the dashboard list to be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Playlists] Fixed an issue occurring when refreshing the dashboard list to be displayed.
```

> - [Playlists] Fixed error when modifying a dashboard, and then displaying it exclusively in a playlist.

Reviewer: ?

</details>

## Centreon Monitoring Connectors Manager (formerly Plugin Packs Manager)

### 25.10.0

Release date: `October 29, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [Configuration] Default 24/7 notification time period is now definied on base pack Host templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] A default 24/7 notification time period is now defined on base pack host templates.
```

> - [Monitoring Connectors] User access to this page can now be handled using dedicated ACL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Monitoring Connectors] User access to this page can now be handled using dedicated ACLs.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- Added missing French translations.

> - Restored translations from UI tooltips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
